I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration
for freedom in the history of our nation. [applause]

Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the
Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions
of Negro slaves [Audience:] (Yeah) who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice.
It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. (Hmm)

But one hundred years later (All right), the Negro still is not free. (My Lord, Yeah) One
hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation
and the chains of discrimination. (Hmm) One hundred years later (All right), the Negro lives
on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. One hundred
years later (My Lord) [applause], the Negro is still languished in the corners of American
society and finds himself in exile in his own land. (Yes, yes) And so we’ve come here today
to dramatize a shameful condition.

...

And if America is to be a great nation (Yes), this must become true. So let freedom ring
(Yes, Amen) from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. (Uh-huh) Let freedom ring from
the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of
Pennsylvania. (Yes, all right) Let freedom ring (Yes) from the snow-capped Rockies of Colorado.
(Well) Let freedom ring from the curvaceous slopes of California. (Yes) But not only that:
(No) Let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia. [cheering] (Yeah, Oh yes, Lord) Let
freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee. (Yes) Let freedom ring from every hill and
molehill of Mississippi. (Yes) From every mountainside (Yeah) [sustained applause], let freedom ring.

And when this happens [applause] (Let it ring, Let it ring), and when we allow freedom
ring (Let it ring), when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every
state and every city (Yes Lord), we will be able to speed up that day when all of God’s
children (Yeah), black men (Yeah) and white men (Yeah), Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and
Catholics (Yes), will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual:
"Free at last! (Yes) Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!" [enthusiastic applause]